# Hypothesis generation and modification
We develop a Bayesian rule based model that incorporates some of the cognitive processes thought to be involved in scientific reasoning. The model can revise and expand an initial, user generated scientific hypothesis.  The objective is to test the hypothesis based on known scientific data, revising it if necessary and suggesting alternative or modified versions. This process, if successful will reduce the search space for unnecessary or unlikely to succeed lab-based experiments. The objective is to automate the hypothesis generation process of how these key elements may interact and function with the aim of providing a better understanding of disease. The Bayesian model is inserted with an initial question in the form of rules describing the problem to be solved.  The Bayesian approach is very amenable to expressing  domain knowledge held by experts, probabilities can be assigned to expert beliefs which may be revised given further data. Our system can generate and refine a number of competing hypothesis, the most plausible are retained for further inspection. We test our system on a medical domain, observing its initial exploration of the candidate hypothesis space, testing and refining the biological question and suggesting potential alternatives.  

The scientific process of hypothesis generation and testing is central to the discovery of new facts and knowledge. The creation of a hypothesis is based on some underlying theory, the acceptance or refutation is based on the available evidence to reach a conclusion. However, the scientific process enables the expert to refine the original hypothesis as new facts, perhaps even contradictory come to light. We propose that scientific reasoning is one of essentially conforming to the laws and principles of probability. Indeed, Laplace (1816) claimed that ‘‘probability theory is nothing but common sense reduced to calculation.’ Furthermore, we expect a certain degree of causality to be present in any hypothesis.
